Small, medium, and big, small-minded, medium-minded, and big-minded, or you can use the very
initial
word, what's it called, SNL. You know the right word. When we got the TJ Maxx in the old world,
all those places, what do you find? SNL. So this is the three things, small. Ask me, small.
Small means something that very limited attitude, limited intention. And that means when we
practice,
practice, if we start thinking, "Oh, I'm going to do this for myself. I'm going to make myself
happy."
For that, it feels quite good. It makes me happy. And therefore, I'm doing this practice. Kind of
thinking of that, which is wonderful, which is good. But according to the teaching, that is named
as an "S." That is "S." "S" practice. "S" practice. "F" with that, and not just only my "this" help
,
only this lifetime, but I believe also next life. Therefore, I like to be kind of a little bit
better. I like to become stronger, even better. Not just only this, next life, not just only that.
Even I like to leave this samsara, this is typically behind me. I just bother too much.
"F" is true. The Buddha teaching said the rebirth and all those things. I don't really like that to
be reborn again and again and all these things. I like to leave behind everything and go somewhere,
isolated places. And we have that attitude, and thinking, start thinking practices. That is
initial as "M." "M" initial. "M" initial practices. And now, with those thoughts, with kind of this
beautiful thought is helping the support is good, understand the meaning of that, not just myself,
not just only thinking for the next future, what I will be. But I like to release, remove
everyone's suffering, the difficulty to all living beings. And everyone in fact, I like to bring to
the enlightened state, including myself. And having that big vision, big goal, big vastness thought
,
and begin to practice, meditate, and develop both each other. What is that? That initial is "L."
"L" practices. "L" practice. That. So therefore, both Mahayana practitioners, as we are already
a practitioners, we should develop, re-stantin. I mean, it's not something that we don't have.
You already have. We already have that. But we should always glorify that.
Give you that. I'm going to bring everyone happy, everyone joy, everyone peace, and remove their
suffering, the difficult, not just suffering is difficult, but cause of that, which makes suffering
,
which makes it difficult, which makes it trouble. That cause worry, I like to remove. I like to
clean. Really, I'm going to ask it. And then my something. Thinking of that and practice is known
as then, the bodhicaka practices, vastness bodhicaka. Those are in the teaching, used to
call "chivo-chungo" in the Tibet. "Chivo-chungo," "chivo-mrei," "chivo-chimbo." That means,
the small person, I mean, effortlessly directly from the Tibet, as the teaching said. The small
person, medium person, big person. Big person practices. And the small, it's small-minded.
Small kind of, it's not just a small mind in one way. It's good, but it's thinking just very
localized, very personal, kind of localized thinking and doing the practices. And one second
is little larger, little bigger, bigger, and I'm still thinking kind of one's own self there. And
big person is then thinking of every living place. Their hearts are big as skies, wisdom's bigger
and
brighter as brilliant suns. And then, courage and commitments are stronger than regular
mountains. Or make regular mountain of the mountain samaras. And moving forward with that steadfast
thought and thinking of the beautiful goal, vision, moving forward. That is known as the bodhicaka
practice, as we all know that we discussed. And with that attitude and keeping that in the heart
and beautifully. And that is known as the first noble, the beginning noble, as His only dual
music. See that is the beginning noble. With this noble practice, with that, with that power,
and then we begin to meditate.